>> Jason: Hi, my name's Jason Fields, I'm Product
Evangelist for Emerging Technology for Snap.com,
a next generation visual search experience
and content distribution network.
I'd like to first say thanks to George and his
associates at Apple for inviting us here to speak on some
of the challenges that we faced in regards
to developing a cross platform AJAX app.
And so most of you probably know about Snap from
our content distribution platform network Snap Shots.
You've probably seen it on Tech Crunch.
Many WordPress blogs, many Xanga sites,
Guy Kawasaki's blog, Truemors, etcetera.
For those of you that are not familiar with the product,
it's a publisher product for bloggers and site owners.
It's a one line snippet of JavaScript code that you can
add to your page and any hyperlink that you've created
in your page, if you hover over it, you can see
a preview or more of the destination website.
So, this is our first release.
About six months ago we launched a
product line called Snap Preview Anywhere.
At that time it was just a high
resolution preview of the destination site.
But at Web 2.0 we've re-launched the product line, calling
it Snap Shots, and utilizing web services and API's,
we now provide a whole host of other
URL and content types that we recognize.
This is IMDB, Amazon product, you get product
information, reviews, what the prices is.
This is our stock ticker.
We recognize a whole slew of finance
site URLs, stock ticker symbols,
and provide interactive stock chart, Reuters Stock Feed.
This is a custom shot, actually.
There are content providers that might want to provide
additional nuggets of data within the Snap Shots platform,
and this is our first commercial partnership with Reuters.
Anyone that links to a financial ticker on
the Reuters news site will get an RSS feed
of storage relating to that company.
This is a photo, an example of our photo shot.
We support PhotoBucket, Flickr and
Picassa, currently, photo streams.
So anyone that links to any photo stream within a page
can now interact directly with the photos in the bubble.
Audio Shot.
This is streaming audio.
We collect ID3 data and display cover
artwork and title and track information.
And an example of our Video Shot, which actually
enables you to play a host of video formats.
YouTube, Google Video, Revver Video,
within the bubble itself, as well.
So what exactly is Snap Shots?
Snap Shots is a product that we developed to create a brand
and viral awareness off Snap.com,
which is our search experience.
It's actually the opposite of search.
What it does is it provides relevant nuggets of content
to end users that are browsing the web in general,
whether it's a website or a blog, and any of the
links that people are creating in these blog posts
to add support information to their posts, now you can hover
over and see the destination sites or get those nuggets
of content directly in the Snap Shot itself.
Our product has experienced exponential growth.
Within 7 months, we're probably around 13 to 14
million Snap Shot views or impressions per day.
And we're not on over one million plus publisher sites
and growing at about a rate of 20 percent per month
as we launch new Snap Shots that we support.
So what exactly is Snap.com?
Snap is, I might sound biased because I work there, but
I think it's one of the, it's actually been documented
in a number of blogs that it's the largest and
fastest growing Web 2.0 search engine currently,
features some of the most innovative
uses of AJAX and prototype script
and progressive user interface
design that currently exists online.
Clearly while we're not beating the big boys of search,
as this chart shows, we are beating many other ones
and in a very short period of time, noted here, we've
gone from Alexa ranking of 18,000 to 1800.
So the big question that we get asked, how are we
going to plan to compete with the big boys of search?
And the answer as inspired by, let's see, there it
is, so these are some still frames of a commercial
that I'm sure is near and dear to all
of you here at the developer conference.
It is to me.
It's one of my favorite directors.
But these are some still frames of
this video that illustrate our approach
to this competing in the big search space.
Utilizing AJAX and web technologies clearly
was sort of the angle that we wanted to go.
So I guess, let me put it all in perspective.
So current search, outside of Snap, is kind of like DOS.
You invert it, you add some blue links, throw
in some ads to monetize it, maybe slap a logo
and a search box on top, and that's search today.
So, being inspired by Apple and how they
launched by sort of smashing the status quo,
we felt that in order to launch a
product we had to sort of go back in time
and take a look at exactly what the motivations were.
Do we want to copy what exists now, or
do we want to invent something different?
And so we looked at desktop application experience.
And so our approach was to take a look at OS X Finder and
tweak it, add a couple of little logo and there's our,
this is an example of our search experience as it is today.
Traditional text results on the left, and high resolution
Snap Shot of the web result on the right hand side.
And a little bit later in this
presentation we'll actually do a live demo,
both Snap and Snap Shots, so you
can get a first hand example.
So, clearly there was many challenges
that we faced in developing this product.
We're using cutting edge design, cutting edge technology.
At the time that we launched Snap, which is going on a year
and a half ago, you know, Jason and Prototype were still,
you know, very new to the scene, and I don't
think had been used as a commercial product,
so getting those guys to work together,
both on the progressive UI side
and on the programming side was extremely challenging.
And I'd like to introduce Mike Agostino, our CTO,
to get into more technical details in
regards to some of those challenges.
Thanks a lot.
( Applause )
>> Mike: Thank you, Jason.
My name is Michael Agostino, I'm the CTO of Snap.
And what I'm going to talk to you about today is our
experience in building Snap.com and the Snap Shots product.
So I'd like to maybe, at the beginning of the
presentation, just take a little bit of a step back
and talk about the search experience in general.
As, sort of, Jason illustrated in somewhat
of a funny fashion with the 1984 commercial,
we don't believe that it's about the algorithm today.
It's not about the ranking algorithm, it's
really about redefining the user experience.
Early on in Snap's existence, we
actually did some double line tests
where we took the leading search engine's search results,
placed them on another lesser search
engine's logo and vice versa.
And we found that even with quote,
unquote, inferior search results,
people still favored whatever their
favorite search engine was
That they really did not differentiate on the basis
of search results because all of the search engines
at the time were the same in terms of the user experience.
The other thing that we discovered early
on was that most, if not, about 50 percent,
this is according to the Pew Institute's
studies for the internet and it's use,
found that 50 percent of all search missions actually fail.
That is people go to a search engine, they type in something
into the box and they either don't find what they're looking
for or they run out of time, or they
just get frustrated and give up.
That told us something else, you know,
that there was really an opportunity here.
The third thing that we sort of thought back on, and this
sort of goes back to the DOS analogy, is that you know,
a lot has changed in the world of search in terms of what
machines are operating with, we all have broadband now,
you know, a lot has changed in 10 years, but the
search experience of typing into an empty box
and getting back blue links, really hasn't.
I mean, we said hey, there's really an experience
that we can leverage all that great hardware,
the fact that everybody's broadband connected,
that there's a lot more content in the world
and do something interesting with all of that hardware.
So we basically said there's a radical opportunity
here to just revolutionize what's going on.
So this is what we came up with.
Jason showed it to you earlier.
On the left you see a traditional experience,
on the right you see our experience.
So going from 10 blue links to visual previews of results.
Going from a page loading paradigm where you
load pages, to one that's much more interactive.
We call it channel surfacing.
This is similar to how some people interact with their
television where they just click, click, click, click,
click and see different channels very quickly.
We thought that same approach could be applied to
search, allowing people to visualize the results
in a very rapid fashion and decide
for themselves what's good.
Allow them to more directly find the page they're
looking for, rather than a process of going forward
and then going backwards and then forwards and backwards,
really directly find what they're looking for faster.
And of course, the technology that
we used for this was AJAX.
So now we're going to get into the main part of
the conversation, which is really about the rules
that we developed over time for optimizing
across platform AJAX application.
So these are rules that we developed
just from going through the process.
We hope they apply to other applications.
They're not just search specific.
Some of them are processes, as we've labeled here.
Some are much more in depth about the technology.
So the first process related rule that we really came up
with was about getting everybody involved in the process.
So you can get down to the tail end of a product
release and we've got weeks or days until the thing has
to go live, and there's concerns about performance.
We had this issue.
One thing that we learned was that you have to
break out of the traditional way of thinking
about performance being an engineering
concern and only an engineering.
We actually got our product management involved and it
actually helped us quite a bit because they were able
to illustrate and help us make the appropriate trade offs
between what users believed was important
and what maybe was in the product.
Second thing we discovered was having every developer
really brains from the process and leveraging QA.
Another main rule that we set up is the, we call it
the no sacred cows here, but it can probably stated
as the sacred cows make great cheeseburgers rule.
And the thought behind that is you have to
be willing to sacrifice any product feature
at any time if performance is not adequate.
If you can't find a way to optimize
that algorithm to get it to the point
where people are actually found the product
usable, why have that feature in there?
And the third thing we did was we actually
published our performance every single day.
So for us, that was sending out an email that
said how many search transactions met our SLA.
It was helpful in two ways.
The first way was really engendered a lot of spirit.
You know, people saw the numbers getting
better and better every single day,
they got behind the efforts to improve performance.
The second was when we dealt with setbacks people were able
to sort of immediately scratch their head and go what was
that code I checked in yesterday, and is there
something wrong, maybe I should rethink that
and go back and reexamine what they had done.
Second sort of theme that's more process related was really
about the frame of mind that we approached this problem.
Many times people look at this as more of a backend problem.
But we really wanted to be guided
by user experience research.
So one of the experts we called upon was Jakob Nielson.
And he has a few rules that he's created over time
that talk about how people interact with applications
and what's the necessary time for them to feel
satisfied and to continue to use the product.
So we developed what we call the .2 to 10 rule.
The .2 to be for an application
to feel highly interactive,
small things have to happen in less than .2 seconds.
If they happen in .1 seconds, that's nice, but it doesn't,
people don't really see any difference
between .1 and .2 for the most part.
If it happens in .3 people start
to, you know, feel a little bad.
Similarly, if you have something that runs in a little
bit longer, it has to happen in about 2 seconds.
Now if it happens in one and a half seconds, that's
good, you know, people don't differentiate a lot.
If it happens in more than two seconds, people
start to see friction and their mind wanders
and maybe they start thinking about, you know, maybe
what am I going to have for dinner tonight and, you know,
what time do I have to go home, or you know,
what's that other bug I'm thinking about.
So we've really established a couple of rules here.
One was that all of our search results would
have to come back in one and a half seconds
and that our first preview would
have to be loaded within two seconds.
So that is a total time of two seconds from the time
that people submitted that first preview on the right
that Jason showed you in the intro
section has to be down in two seconds.
Now that's a pretty big challenge, even with broadband.
Now this wasn't a problem for us, but if your
application does happen to take more than 10 seconds,
people are going to assume it's broken unless you have some
kind of progress indicator, and generally, in today's world,
people are still frustrated if things are taking 10 seconds.
Another thing that we looked at is really
taking a look at the end-to-end performance.
So many web applications that you're probably familiar
with manage performance on a data center perspective.
That is how long did the servers
take while computing the response?
We didn't think that was really a good way to look at it.
We thought the more true way to look at it was
to look at it from the end user's perspective.
So from the time that they initiated an action until their
browser, in this case, was ready for the next action.
So that includes all the wait time on the server side,
that includes, the download of any data associated with it,
any active elements such as JavaScript
executed, all of that had to be complete.
And that's how we looked at the world.
So we ended up monitoring every significant end user
action in Snap.com so we could find out how we were doing.
So this is really easy to do in AJAX,
but you could also do it without AJAX.
There's some other techniques that
you can do to get this information.
To talk about this is Brian..
>> Is more advantageous the rendering the speed at which
things are returned by the servers from the backend
and then the performance gives a more accurate
idea of what these users are actually experiencing,
whether they're on any type of platform or
dial up connection or that kind of thing.
We track the performance numbers on the front end instead
of what the servers tell us, because that way we're able
to actually gauge what the users are actually experiencing.
What we discovered from this is that we, there
were a few key areas that we had to improve.
For example, we know what portion of
our audience is using dial up and we had
to speed up the experience for those users.
As well, we knew what browsers and platforms,
what operating systems people were using.
And with all that information we knew where we could
take advantage of some of the latest technologies
so we could give a better user
experience, more Web 2.0 type of interaction.
>> Okay. So what I'm going to show you
probably for the first time outside
of Snap, is actually our first performance graph.
So we instrumented all of our code
and you can see from this line here,
the top blue line is actually our 80th percentile, so that
was the, our SLA so to speak, of we wanted 80 percent of all
of our searches to actually execute within 1.5 seconds
so the solid red line there is the
target so to speak or the goal.
And what we found was we were, on many
days, so this is the days leading up to
when we launched our optimization
effort, we were 2 seconds too slow.
So this was a real aw shucks moment for us and we knew it.
We really had to dig deep.
We knew that we had performance problems and we wanted
to address them, but we didn't realize the full extent.
So what this is showing is that when you
really do measure end-to-end up to 50 percent
of our search experiences were in
adequate in terms of performance.
So one of the first things we did was
really build a user interaction timeline.
So this is a simplified version, but what it's
meant to illustrate is a typical user session,
so you see the user typing in a query, getting images
back, starting to interact with the various listings.
Now the reason why this is important
is because we wanted to optimize based
on the end users expectations of how things should function.
So this is the first thing we built.
Next thing we did is we actually went one level
deeper, which was to look at the machine perspective.
So if you think of the green as being the end
user's machine and the blue being our website,
there's a number of internal steps to each one of those
arrows, so in this case, we're showing in the green, again,
is the end user machine and then the blue
is the server, and then the white arrows
between them are actually packets flowing back and forth.
So what this graph is showing you is that up to 8
packets can be sent for even the simplest request.
So you download a one byte transparent
GIF, you can sent 8 packets back and forth.
It turns out that if you have users across
the country or around the world, as we do,
that can take quite a long time,
all of those round trips add up.
So, what we're trying to illustrate here is
that HTTP transactions are a significant source
of slowness in a typical AJAX based application.
So the first step, if you really want to optimize
your applications is to count the HTTP transactions.
So a simple test you can do, clear your cache, load
your website up and really see what's going on.
You know? It sounds simple, it sounds
very simple minded in some ways,
but that's pretty much the most basic way to start.
Maybe the next level step is if you want to look
at that machine view is load up a network analyzer,
so you use your favorite network analyzer and actually
look at all those packets that are going back and forth,
seeing which things are being re-downloaded
if you re-access them.
Count the connections that are being created.
Really start to form a much more detailed timeline.
One thing that we found that we could optimize
after we did this was really start to use a palette.
So this is an optimization technique that
tries to combine images into one large image.
So Snap, because it's very rich and we're
trying to emulate a desktop application,
actually uses like it says here, 130 independent images.
It sounds like a lot.
It sounds crazy.
It sounds wasteful.
But if you really want to have
the richness of the experience
that we're going after, you really do need lots of images.
They may not all be used at once.
They maybe be used in different sections of the site.
But they eventually all have to be there.
So we have 59 on our search engine results page.
So if you load each of those, if you think about the
last slide, each of them could potentially be 8 packets
for every one of those images going back and forth.
So we created a palette, these palettes are
essentially a very large concatenation of images all
into one giant image file, they're sorted by color and then
by height, and then we use CSS to actually extract them.
So what this allowed us to do is
to go from 130 independent images
that could have been loaded, down
to a small number of palettes.
So we had one for orange, one for
yellow and one for some other colors.
We then wrote some tools that allowed our web
developers to interact and write code as though it was
as a single image rather than having to
understand what was going on with the CSS and such.
>> We're looking at front end issues when you're analyzing
what the total download speed for search results pages was.
One of the things we noticed was there is a
huge number of graphics and every graphic had
to be individually fetched with HTTP headers,
and so one of the ways we increase the load speed was
to take similar graphics, we basically matched graphics
up by the color palettes that they used and organized them
into a huge mosaic of images that were pieced together
into one huge image and so then the page could load
that one image and then we wrote some scripts that
automatically generated the CSS to cut up the palette images
into the individual pieces and place
them where they belong on the page.
And I think that the speed improvement
was a half a second just from that one.
>> So as Tim said, we got about a half a
second out of just that one transformation.
And if you think about we're trying
to get to 1.5 seconds total time,
chopping out half a second doesn't sound
like much, but it's pretty significant.
So taking that as sort of our mantra,
eliminating these transactions were kept going.
We looked for other places.
Here's some rules of thumbs that we came up with
that might be applicable to your AJAX applications.
Have your style sheets inline.
Pretty simple to do.
Move your images inline.
Not many people know about this.
But this is kind of a wacky thing you can do
where you can actually place the source data
of the image actually right there in the html.
But obviously this eliminates one
additional request to your server.
This is actually was invented, I believe, by Larry
Masinter of Xerox Parc fame.
It doesn't work in IE.
Maybe that's not a big concern.
But if you want to know more, 23,
RFC 2379 has# all the details on it.
Really big win that we got was
actually using persistent connections.
So if you think back about the chart that I showed
you before where there's those 8 packets going back
and forth for every single request, if you use persistent
connections, it can really lower that quite a bit.
Here's an illustration of that.
So on the top we have using traditional
non-persistent connections
and on the bottom you can see using persistent connections.
There's only two packets going back and forth because
the connection is maintained from request to request.
So after we did that, this is about where we were.
So you can, this is a little bit more complicated graph, but
you know, it has multiple different bands in there showing
where each one fits, but you can see with the orange
line, we're just about our target of 1.5 seconds.
The green line, which was the 80th
percentile was still quite high.
We had about another half a second or so to trim out.
So we kept going.
Next hint that we came up with was
really about exploring parallelism.
So using persistent connections, we actually
started to use multiple different hosts.
So we broke out all of our resources across
the site, so those palettes, the CSS,
other things, and placed them under different hosts.
So we'd have, of course, www.Snap.com, but we'd
have other hosts like i.Snap.com for static images.
Now the trade-off when you do this, you obviously get a
more persistent connections, but you use more DNS time.
We did some experiments and we've read other places that
this seems like the best case is two to three hosts,
it might be four for some particularly rich applications.
This sort of shows visually what it looks like.
If you do everything in a series,
you know, you just use a single host,
obviously everything's going to go one after another.
If you use two hosts, you get a little bit better.
It effectively makes your site feel a lot more
responsive if you get all the way to four.
The thing you want to be careful of, of course, is
starting to strain the end user's network connection.
The other thing that we did was
really look at our cacheability.
We adopted a rule that we're still using today,
which is to consider all static files immutable.
That is they don't ever change.
If they change, you change the version number.
So we did this on images, we did it
on our CSS and then we set our expires
so that those would be cached forever out to about a year.
The other thing we did is we were using a
CDN before this, but we actually used our,
you should use a CDN to really push that out.
One gotcha that we did find is that the
CDN doesn't always respect expires headers.
There are bugs in CDN.
And it seems funny that there would be some
after five plus years, maybe seven years,
of CDN's being mainstreamed, but there's still various bugs.
The other thing that we did discover is be aware
of your use of cookies with your static elements.
You probably want to move your static files to
another domain so that they don't interfere.
This has two benefits.
One, your cache it rate will be preserved at the CDN,
but secondarily if you have a very long cookie that's
being sent, you'll preserve upstream bandwidth.
And upstream bandwidth, as many of you know, is
much more precious than downstream bandwidth.
If a user has to send a 1K cookie
all the way across the internet,
that may break a request that's normally
one packet into multiple packets,
which means that the overall application is less responsive.
The next rule that we came up with is squeeze bytes.
Now this sounds a little bit 1995ish,
you know, Web 1.0, but it still matters.
You know? Packets are small on the wild
internet and congestion is everywhere.
Right? Your end user's neighbor might be running Bit
Torrents out of his house, and it's all going to conflict
and if you can make your site just a little
bit smaller, you might just get lucky.
So one thing we did is we actually went through
and audited all of our old image and style sheets.
This is particularly important for people who are
dynamic, sort of developing sites in a rapid fashion,
it's very easy for things to get left behind.
Just the croft builds up very quickly
and it's very easy to get forgotten.
The other thing you can consider is
really using a compressing obfuscator.
We did configure our web server to use
GZIP for all of the non image elements.
And that's how you do that right there, at least in Apache.
Last thing we discovered we discovered
is really using a format called JSON.
Now it's not related to Jason Fields,
even though he'd like to think it is.
It really stands for JavaScript Object Notation.
This is a way of sending your objects down as sort of
precompiled JavaScript objects so all they have to do,
all that has to be done is to call the eval function.
Now it turns out the bytes are about the
same between XML and JSON, typically,
but the parsing results are quite different.
So, what we found is on a development machine,
there was about a 65 milliseconed different.
Now it doesn't sound like a lot, but if you think
about that on top of our, another thing we found out is
that the typical end user's machine is 3 to
5 times slower than our developer's machines.
You're starting to talk about a lot of time.
300 milliseconds and trimming out 300 milliseconds
in the middle of a transaction that's supposed
to last 1.5 seconds is pretty significant.
So this is a little visual of what that looks like.
On the left you'll see what our XML looks like.
On the right you can see a snippet of the JSON.
And if you sort of look at that you
can see that it's a JavaScript hash.
Right? Each of the elements in XML has now become a key.
Another thing we did to make the site even
more responsive is to enable pre-fetching.
So if you have that really detailed timeline that we talked
about in the beginning, look through that entire timeline
and assess are there places where certain actions appear
to require a previous action to end before they can start?
And really challenge yourself, is that true?
So you know, what we found is that there's, in
Snap, there's a lot of places where we had end
to start dependencies, but they weren't really necessary.
So we put in a pre-fetch in the first preview.
We also started pre-fetching the images as people go through
the listings and you'll see this when we do the demo.
The thing to be careful of is that if you arbitrarily
pre-fetch everywhere, you're just going to waste resources
on your own servers, of course, and you're going to waste,
you're going to tie up resources on your end user's machine.
So we sort of came up with a rule of thumb, which
is if it's 80 percent likely, go ahead and do it.
You're end user's probably grateful for the fact
that your application's smooth and responsive
and your business model's probably not going to break
down because you're using 20 percent more servers.
>> One of the things we were looking at while we were
testing the Snap.com website was how do we test performance,
end to end performance from the user's aspect
all the way to the backend of our system?
The complexities of the system is that it is highly
integrated and that it comprises of multiple segments
and so one thing we had to look at
was how do we break that system down.
And what we did was we started looking,
we took the entire system and we broke it into pieces.
How does these transactions work
from one segment of the system
and how does it communicate to another piece of the system?
We also look at transfers across the
different segments and we tried to eliminate
as many hops between the systems as possible.
While testing performance, we also came
across a very big issue was recursive DIVS.
We have a lot of DIVS across our site and we
noticed that when we have recursive DIVS it ate up a lot
of browser's memory, especially in Firefox and in IE,
which causes a lot of user's computers to slow down.
Now most computers, most users don't have computers
that are extremely fast with high volumes of memory.
So we had to test across multiple platforms and we realized
that over time the recursive DIVS were basically
draining the memory and we were noticing a lot
of memory leaks across the system and so that's something
that we had to pay a lot of attention to and we had
to redesign our site according to how we can use, to how we
confected the use of DIVS across the site basically.
Another thing that we looked at was image caching
because we wanted to eliminate as many hops
across the system as possible to the users.
We needed to cache as much content as possible.
That included JavaScript files, CSS files, that included
images, so we create a lot of palettes to cache all
of the images and that way static transfers to the
user's system thereby improving overall performance.
>> So one thing that Mike highlighted there
was really profiling on every major browser.
This is easy for us at Snap, we pretty
much have every platform known to man.
You know? In a developer's hands or in a
QA's hands or in a web designers hands.
We did find some huge performance differences and some
of the functions are essential to AJAX style programming.
As Mike highlighted we did use DIVS
extensively and we did find a couple
of browsers that were not so good at doing that.
It turns out Safari is okay.
Here's some performance graphs.
We'll leave the actual functions out of the
equation here, but what you can see is the blue line
and the pinkish line show Firefox and IE relative to
Safari, so they're taking anywhere from two to four times
as long to execute some very common functions.
And again, this doesn't sound like a lot, but when
you consider that the average end user's computer is 3
to 5 times slower than our developer
machines, it all really adds up.
So we actually went through and in certain cases
wrote platform dependent code where we had to.
So after we went through all of this, this is
where we got, this is where our performance was.
Showing that the green line finally had been
moved below our 1.5, 1.5 second target line.
So we've gone from 25 percent of our end users
having a successful experience to 81 percent.
It took us a lot of work, you know,
but in the end we were very successful.
Now what I'd like to talk about is how you can apply these
same lessons, how we applied these same lessons at Snap Shot.
So I want to demonstrate to you that it's not
just a search specific optimizations that we did,
these are actually cross platform, or
cross application type optimizations
that you can apply in your own AJAX applications.
So all the same technical issues that
we saw in Snap, remained in Snap Shots.
In fact, some of them were even more difficult.
In Snap, we said we could respond within 1.5 seconds.
But with Snap Shots, as Jason showed,
it's actually triggered by a mouse over.
So if someone moves from one link on the page to another
link on the page, they don't want to wait a long time.
They want that to be a very smooth, flowing experience.
So it had to be really instantaneously
responsive, not just fast.
The other thing we have with Snap Shots, it was,
again a very visually rich experience,
so there were lots of graphics in there.
So we had to do interesting things.
And then even more important than in Snap, was that they
identically perform across all the different browsers
and across all platforms, because people that were going to
use this, they were going to use it on their blogs, right?
They can't choose what browser their end users are using.
In search we could say well, maybe there's some
smaller browser that has 1 or 2 percent market share
and maybe it's really not part of our business
model to serve that user, but with Snap Shots,
since we wanted to allow the publisher to
really control that and have a good experience
for their user, we had to be much more cross platform.
Like Jason said, we conceived it offsite in
October, we launched it six weeks later in November.
We've been growing really rapidly.
I think now we're actually available in ten
different languages and we're expanding to 30.
actually if anyone here has a language that they speak
that's, other than English, Spanish, German, Russian,
Portuguese, the two different forms of Chinese, I'm
probably forgetting one, please come up and see me after
and we can talk to you about how you
can get Snap Shots in your language.
So here are the specific issues that we faced.
Scalability.
You know, this is, you know, we're rapidly expanding our
search footprint, but Snap Shots is growing even faster.
We're up over 1 million sites that have it active today.
It's used 14 million times per day.
We're serving about 160 shots per second.
We peak at 275.
It has to work, like I said, across any website.
And we have many more content types than
we ever did in the search experience.
We have 10 different sites and we
have many different content providers.
So what we did in optimizing Snap Shots was really
to build a timeline specific to the type of shot.
So for the Wikipedia Shot it had a
different timeline than say a YouTube Shot.
So understand what the issues are in each of those.
Understand where they can breakdown, where
they can fail, where there might be end
to start dependencies that we need to eliminate.
So what are the things we did?
Well, they're the same things we did for Snap.
Single palette for all the images.
We used persistent connections everywhere, especially
important when you want to have instantaneous response
from link to link, we streamlined
our JavaScript and finally,
we used multiple different IFRAMEs to allow parallelism.
So we took a look at some of our requests that could take
a little bit longer and actually placed an IFRAMEs in there
to allow the bubble itself to be responsive
while maybe a transaction that was going to fill
in that bubble to sort of go in parallel.
So in conclusion, developing a cross
platform AJAX app is really hard.
The tools are starting to get better,
but it's still really difficult.
If you wanted to really be, you know, if you really
want to reinvent an experience and make it seem
like a desktop application, it's going to be a lot of work.
You're going to have to do probably 200 really
small things and if you foul up on any one of them,
you might not get the experience that you want to have.
But we found is that with a talented
and empowered team, it's not impossible,
but you could probably have massive growth yourself.
So I'd like to invite Jason back up to the stage and
we're going to do a demo, as promised, of both Snap,
the search experience, as well as Snap Shots.
Once that's completed we're going to have
time for a Q and A if people have it.
So what Jason is showing you here,
or was showing you, there it goes.
Okay. So this is Snap Search Engine.
We actually offer multiple types of search.
You know, we showed you web search, but
we actually have image search as well.
So the first thing that you see that makes, that
shows you this is different is actually interactivity
that you get in the search box.
So rather than typing into a blank
box, and getting no response,
you actually get some interactivity
that you can actually do.
It suggests potential queries that you want to type.
So the next thing you get is the search engine results page.
So on the left is our traditional listings,
or text, and on the right is the preview.
And what Jason is actually doing here is actually scrolling
through those listings and as you see him scrolling
through them the image on the right is changing.
So that's an image of the destination site.
It's providing you with information about it helping you
decide is this an academic site, is this a commercial site,
is this a pay to use, rich visual images,
is it a site that's written in my language,
helping you sort of judge more about it so
that you have an informed decision before you,
look before you leap is what we call it.
So this is all AJAX based.
You can use, as we showed, you can click
on things, you can use your keyboard,
you can use your mouse, all of that to activate that.
In fact, since its AJAX, you can do all sorts of things.
You can actually change up the UI
and make the image smaller or larger,
depending on the particular search
mission that you're actually on.
Now we're going to show you Snap Shots.
This is a page on our site called Snap Shot central,
where we list all the different shots that are available.
We started with the preview shot, which is, as we said,
just a high resolution JPEG of the destination of a link.
But that's what we launched back in November.
You can see that you can see the multiple
different sizes, but we actually went beyond
that into what we call rich shots, so
bringing information directly into the bubble.
So this is an example of the Wikipedia Shot.
We're actually bringing the first
paragraph or so of an article about Picasso.
Here's a movie shot where we have
the bio of Scarlett Johansson.
All this information is being pulled from IMDB.
Now you can see, as Jason's interacting
with it, how we responsive this actually is.
It's showing you all this information that you could
get that normally you'd have to click, go to a website,
wait five seconds, find your path
around there and then maybe go back.
We have some other ones on here.
This is actually an example of our PhotoShot,
we support a number of different providers.
You can see that you can interact with an
entire photo album right there in the bubble.
We have a video shot, which allows
you to look at various videos,
so you can actually see here actually
playing the video directly in the site.
And of course, you can movie it so that maybe it's out
of your way maybe while you're watching a long video
if you want to continue working on something else.
We just recently announced the RSS Shot.
It actually came live today, just in time
for this conference, is the RSS Shot.
So what this enables you to do is if you're looking
at a link to any destination page that happens
to have an RSS feed associated with it, you can get
a summary of that feed right there in the bubble.
So you get the top four or five
articles, along with the short excerpt,
and it helps you decide is this
something I want to go visit?
What are the hot stories that this blog is talking about?
Something that's not showing here, that we're taking the
next step with RSS, is if you actually link to an article,
you can actually read the article of a
permalink directly inside the bubble.
We also support the Profile Shot.
Do you want to show that, Jason?
So this is for social networks.
So if you're browsing around the internet and you want to
find out a little bit more about the people that are there,
so MySpace and others who will be supporting this soon,
you can actually get some biographical
details about them just by using Snap Shots.
We plan to support new shots going forward.
Actually, if you're interested in talking to us
maybe about a particular content type that you have
that you want supported in Snap Shot,
come talk to Jason or me after that.
There's another thing that we did not highlight, which is
we have another technology called Snap Shot market language,
which actually uses micro formats to give you
direct control over the Snap Shots that appear.
So not only that, you can mark any form of
content, so an image, a plain piece of text,
basically removing the Snap Shots restriction
from the links and putting it anywhere.
So you can say hey, I want the Wikipedia
shot here and I want the bio of Henry Ford.
So you can get more details about
that in Snap Shots Central as well.
Can we go back to the slides, please?
So George is going to come back up.
>> George: Pretty incredible technology
they've been working on.
I think a lot of their methodologies are extremely
applicable to probably future applications
that you're currently or will be
working on in the very near future.
There's one last thing I wanted to add, which is
more or less a recap of some of the other things
that you've probably heard during this week.
One more thing, and that's, you know, when you're designing,
when you're designing AJAX applications in particular,
as you start thinking about them for the
iPhone, we just wanted to reiterate a couple
of really good design disciplines and
leave that and see that with the audience.
Good design practices are extremely important, whether
you're designing AJAX applications for the desktop,
and even more so importantly for the iPhone as you start
thinking about what you heard in the session yesterday.
That session will also be re-broadcast in this
room tomorrow at 3:30 p.m. Column layout,
when you're designing the actual grid structure
for your page, consider columns and DIVS,
basically laying out the columns and
the constructs of your actual page.
Size does matter.
We talked about the Edge Network as well as the
WiFi Network and being able to strategically plan
out how your contents will scale and have
progressive enhancement based on the network protocol
and the network connectivity at that given time.
Media queries, CSS3 media queries is extremely important.
Use the media queries to do the device detection and the
intelligent auto layout when you design your content.
And then also, take into consideration as you're
designing your content how you could best,
do your best practices, optimize
your content for the iPhone.
The viewport tag, considering what the height
and width will actually be for that content,
given on whether or not it's portrait or landscape mode.
Double Tap, the access bits that
we have inside through JavaScript,
how you actually will interact with that content.
Text size adjustments, the additional
tags that we've mentioned in that session.
And then lastly, the dom events that are specific
and they are supported on the actual device.
Please come do tomorrow's session.
Listen to it.
See it all over again.
We're going to get that content up on the website as soon
as possible so as you're building out your future, you know,
as you're working on your current AJAX applications to
take all these best design practices into consideration.
And then media, when you're creating your media
for the iPhone, or whether it's for the desktop,
be sure to also take into consideration
those bandwidth constraints as well.
So for more information through the WorldWide Developer
Relations, your contact for dealing with anything related
with AJAX for the desktop or AJAX
applications for the iPhone is Mark Malone.
You have the contact information here.
There's useful information around user agent
and object detection listed here as well.
This will also be posted onto the Apple Developer
Connection Website and then also within the W3C
and the What Working Group on the guidance around
dealing with CSS3 media queries for doing the dynamic layout
and design of those objects and then also within the
image and audio tag that we are contributing as Apple
to the What Working Group as well
as the HTML 5 specification within the W3C.
please be sure to take a look at that spec,
it's an open forum if you have advice,
if you want to contribute your own two bits, be
a participant in helping define what HTML 5 is.
For the media site, Allan Schaffer is your WWDR
contact handling anything related to QuickTime,
QuickTime optimization for either the Desktop Safari
Experience or for the iPhone Safari Experience.
A few housekeeping reminders before we open it up to
Q and A. We have a widget design technique session
in this room a little bit later this evening, and
then over in the main keynote hall, Presidio,
we have Vector Graphics for WebKit, where
we will be going in-depth over canvas, CSS3,
and scalable vector graphics, SVG, which is new to Leopard.
Tomorrow's sessions, we are going to
be hosting the Apple.com Design Team,
which you guys have probably already
seen the latest redesign of Apple.com.
they'll be coming and speaking about the really interesting
uses of AJAX that they've applied to this new redesign
and actually dissecting it and
giving optimization approaches
that we here at Apple are using as best practices.
We have an AJAX Methodologies for
QuickTime Development session tomorrow
that I think is going to be really interesting.
And again, the rebroadcast of the Developing
Websites for iPhones session here in this room.
And then we are also very fortunate to have with us this
week, two very esteemed individuals that are contributing
and making web applications become a reality on the web.
We'll have Dillon and Alex Russell from the site penned the
Dojo Foundation for the Dojo library set giving a session.
And then on Friday, we're also going to have a separate
session with the creator of prototype, Sam Stephenson,
from 37 Signals, that will be here as well.
So please, be sure to check out these sessions.
We also have some labs.
AJAX Web Development lab for two hours in the
graphics and media section downstairs tomorrow.
And then on Friday, we'll have a
blog development lab covering MAMP
and Press as well as our own OS X Server new feature sets.
And then we have a Hybrid-Web/Cocoa Applications
Development lab on Friday, where those of you that
might be thinking about I'm going to take the best
of the knowledge that I have inside of AppKit and
apply that within Cocoa context with a WebKit view,
we're going to be showing some really compelling
demos of what that means in that session
on Friday.
But we also have a lab for you as well.